---
layout: post
title: Initial Meet-up at SQS
tags: [Lexi]
description:
image:
published: true
---

In preparation for our first meeting with Ben Fox at Software Quality Systems, our team met at the library last Tuesday to briefly discuss any questions we would have for him and to make a plan for our meet-up the following day. We didn't have much of an idea about what to expect going in, but the pre-planning helped us get focused and ready to absorb all Ben's information. I was already looking forward to working with this team; the four of us each bring a variety of skills and experiences to the table that I believe will build a very strong scrum team from start to finish. 

I have experience from two internships where I worked on an Agile team. One team was scrum and the other was kanban, and I learned a mixture of different practices that I think give me a good perspective on various methods a team could use. Additionally, at both of my internships I did Java development in the Spring framework, which included JUnit testing and user-story planning. At my most recent internship, I also gained a lot of experience writing SQL queries and working on a second project that utilized front-end design. Overall I have a background that gives me a good understanding of full-stack development. However, despite my competence and ability to write code, I don't particularly enjoy that task (or at least enough for that to be my job for many years). But, I feel that I am skilled at asking questions and anticipating issues in development. I am able to communicate with a product owner in somewhat of a business analyst role and to write requirements for a project. Although I don't have much experience formally writing requirements, I'm looking forward to developing that skill as I've accepted a job post-graduation where I will be a Business Technology Analyst.

I certainly can't speak in as much detail about my team members skills and experiences, but they all are good programmers and have experience in database systems. We've all done work in various areas of software engineering and are all creative in different ways. Plus we get along well, so I anticipate that we will have some fun doing this project and that it won't feel like too much of a chore at all times.

Our first meeting with Ben was last Wednesday, and it went very well. Ben did a great job of explaining the project to us, and we left with a detailed list of notes and ideas that will most likely get us all the way through our initial set of requirements. Moreover, we formed a relationship with him that will support our work on his project. Ben is also very easy to get a hold of, so we should have no problems communicating with him throughout our development. While the project may not be easy, I have no worries that we will be able to make a clear plan and get through our sprint cycle relatively smoothly. I also feel that we have the right set of skills to work on this particular project, and I'm looking forward to beginning the development process with my team this week.

Word count: 531
